README.md, before:

[![Made in Nigeria](https://img.shields.io/badge/made%20in-nigeria-008751.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/acekyd/made-in-nigeria)

![](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/coderblvck/goignore
)

# goignore

`goignore` is a lightweight Command Line Interface (CLI) tool for generating `.gitignore` files based on the programming language you're using. It helps you easily create `.gitignore` files for your projects by either specifying a programming language or automatically detecting it from the files in your project directory.

<div align="center">
<img width="602" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-04 at 2 31 40 AM" src="https://github.com/hacktivist123/goignore/assets/26572907/a1a3115d-8600-4b3b-9ab9-1c34968f59ee">


</div>

## Installation
### Using Package

To use `goignore`, you need to have Go (Golang) installed on your system. If you haven't installed Go, you can download and install it from the [official website](https://golang.org/doc/install).

Once you have Go installed, you can install `goignore` using the following command:

```sh
go install github.com/hacktivist123/goignore/cmd/goignore
```

Go pkg:
```sh
go get -u github.com/hacktivist123/goignore/cmd/goignore
```

### Without installing package
Clone repo to your local directory with the command
```sh
git clone https://github.com/hacktivist123/goignore.git
```
Get the executable goignore file by running the command
```sh
go build ./goignore/cmd/goignore
```
A goignore executable file should be generated for you, you can run all the commands outlined above but this time prepend it with `./`.
Example:
```sh
./goingore list
```


## Usage

### Auto-Detecting Language
If you want goignore to automatically detect the programming language based on the files in your project directory, you can run the following command:

```sh
goignore new
```

### Generating .gitignore File
To generate a .gitignore file for a specific programming language, you can use the following command:

```sh
goignore new --language=<language>
```

Replace <language> with the desired programming language. For example, to generate a .gitignore file for Python:

```sh
goignore new --language=python
```
You can also use the -l shorthand for the --language flag.

### Initializing a git repo and a gitignore
If you want a gitignore file and a new git repository at the same time, you can do this by running the following command

```sh
gitignore new --init
```
You can also use the -i shorthand for the --init flag.
### Listing Supported Languages
To list all supported programming languages for generating .gitignore files, you can use the following command:

```sh
goignore list
````

This will display a list of supported programming languages.

## Todo for Upcoming Release

- [ ] Interactive mode

- [x] Allow users to choose to initialize the git repo in their folder

- [x] Use `goignore new` to auto-detect language and scrap `goignore new language=auto`

- [x] Github actions to build main.go file and automatically create an executable file that can be downloaded

- [x] Unit tests for all functions (should be part of GitHub actions workflow)

- [ ] Other installation options i.e brew, scoop and npm

- [x] Setup GoReleaser

## Contributing
Contributions to goignore are welcome! If you encounter any issues, have suggestions, or want to contribute improvements, please open an issue or submit a pull request on the GitHub repository.

## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT License](/LICENSE).

Commit message:

add link to official docker image

README.md, after:

[![Made in Nigeria](https://img.shields.io/badge/made%20in-nigeria-008751.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/acekyd/made-in-nigeria)

![](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/coderblvck/goignore
)

# goignore

`goignore` is a lightweight Command Line Interface (CLI) tool for generating `.gitignore` files based on the programming language you're using. It helps you easily create `.gitignore` files for your projects by either specifying a programming language or automatically detecting it from the files in your project directory.

<div align="center">
<img width="602" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-04 at 2 31 40 AM" src="https://github.com/hacktivist123/goignore/assets/26572907/a1a3115d-8600-4b3b-9ab9-1c34968f59ee">


</div>

## Installation
### Using Package

To use `goignore`, you need to have Go (Golang) installed on your system. If you haven't installed Go, you can download and install it from the [official website](https://golang.org/doc/install).

Once you have Go installed, you can install `goignore` using the following command:

```sh
go install github.com/hacktivist123/goignore/cmd/goignore
```

Go pkg:
```sh
go get -u github.com/hacktivist123/goignore/cmd/goignore
```

### Without installing package
Clone repo to your local directory with the command
```sh
git clone https://github.com/hacktivist123/goignore.git
```
Get the executable goignore file by running the command
```sh
go build ./goignore/cmd/goignore
```
A goignore executable file should be generated for you, you can run all the commands outlined above but this time prepend it with `./`.
Example:
```sh
./goingore list
```

## Docker

You can find the official Docker image [here](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/coderblvck/goignore)

## Usage

### Auto-Detecting Language
If you want goignore to automatically detect the programming language based on the files in your project directory, you can run the following command:

```sh
goignore new
```

### Generating .gitignore File
To generate a .gitignore file for a specific programming language, you can use the following command:

```sh
goignore new --language=<language>
```

Replace <language> with the desired programming language. For example, to generate a .gitignore file for Python:

```sh
goignore new --language=python
```
You can also use the -l shorthand for the --language flag.

### Initializing a git repo and a gitignore
If you want a gitignore file and a new git repository at the same time, you can do this by running the following command

```sh
gitignore new --init
```
You can also use the -i shorthand for the --init flag.
### Listing Supported Languages
To list all supported programming languages for generating .gitignore files, you can use the following command:

```sh
goignore list
````

This will display a list of supported programming languages.

## Todo for Upcoming Release

- [ ] Interactive mode

- [x] Allow users to choose to initialize the git repo in their folder

- [x] Use `goignore new` to auto-detect language and scrap `goignore new language=auto`

- [x] Github actions to build main.go file and automatically create an executable file that can be downloaded

- [x] Unit tests for all functions (should be part of GitHub actions workflow)

- [ ] Other installation options i.e brew, scoop and npm

- [x] Setup GoReleaser

## Contributing
Contributions to goignore are welcome! If you encounter any issues, have suggestions, or want to contribute improvements, please open an issue or submit a pull request on the GitHub repository.

## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT License](/LICENSE).
